---
layout: default
title: Why I am an agnostic
---

One thing that often come up when you meet new people is what your religious affiliations are. Here, I usually make a untranslatable joke ("sou à toa"), nevertheless a detailed answer is required sometimes. Then I get blank stares when I say I am an agnostic- even though the reasons are not ground breaking to those in the skeptic community or faith apologetics. I believe (heh) it is because there exists a common image of atheists, and by extension agnostics, as angry, disappointed in God people, who demean believers and judge them intellectually challenged because of their faith. Of course, _there are_ non-believers as such (likewise exists extremist believers) however I don't consider myself any of that. I am also far from an expert in all existing religions, so I will group all of their claims (spirituality, dogmas, non-physical entities, etc.) together as the "supernatural" as to explain some of the _actual_ motives why no religion currently appeals to me.

1. Lack of supernatural in our daily lives
There exists no (verified) supernatural activity in the everyday. If the supernatural is real, why does it seem to influence the natural world so little? Where does it show up? Oh, and what about miracles?

Seeing as how our notion of miracle changes over the time with the increase of knowledge- in the past, all natural phenomenons like lighting or big waves were the handiwork of higher beings- I just can't take ancient texts or oral tradition as proof of miraculous events. Still, there are many claims of miracles in our days. These claims often follow some patterns. A prayer healed someone. The desired outcome happened only because of divine intervention. Positive thinking made something happened. An angel compelled someone to gift a believer.

Notice how they are always extensions of what is possible or just circumstances that get attributed to the supernatural? We don't get to even hear of truly fantastic events, let alone testify them. The kind of miracles which were common the antiquity, such as the Earth stopping its rotation, fire coming from the sky, gods themselves showing up, are now mysteriously unheard of. Or the ones foreseen in the future: the various accounts of apocalypse, the judgment of the world; does anything today come close? Let us also not dwell on the incidence rate. How many few from thousands in distress get rewarded with a miracle? 

2. Admitting the supernatural brings more questions than answers
I am a huge fan of Occam's razor. Simplicity carries a lot of beauty. And, on contrary to popular notion, the universe is simpler without the supernatural.

Once there is enough knowledge to prevent god in the gap scenarios, the metaphysical layer only leads to unanswered questions. We get large amounts of problems (why does God created evil? what really happens after death? why doesn't gods show themselves? what makes a prayer be answered and other not?) and almost zero satisfactory answers. Seeing as the universe doesn't show a need for a non-physical "metaverse", no religion to my knowledge explains it better than no religion at all.

3. The holy books don't pass serious scrutiny
Everybody has heard of passages in holy books or collections of myths that upholds murder, rape, condones slavery, and features gods doing immoral things and whatnot. All attempts to explain these in the light of all good higher beings (or even in respect to coherence) are, quite frankly, plain stupid. We get told thing are out of context, gods are absolute, or any bending of what's written that "justifies" such texts. Also the "higher plan" of the universe and/or the plan of salvation in the religions which features these are all, in the very least, _weird_. You plant a tree knowing people would eat it in order to slay your own son afterwards? Mbombo felt a stomachache and vomited the stars and the earth? _Dianetics_?

4. The whole world is doomed
That different religions don't agree with each other is common sense. In particular to who gets saved. In the religions with damnation (specially the biggest ones) everybody is going to hell. Or at least 99% of every person who has lived. Take Evangelic Christianity as example: the only way to be saved is to accept Jesus and repent. But what if you never heard of Jesus (every Indian or remote population, Asia, _everybody_ in the Americas and Australia before the Age of Discovery)? What if you, by some motive or other, decided that another religion is the right one (every righteous Hindu, the whole populations of Islam and non-Christian countries)? Or just followed another religion because of your culture (right about every European during the catholic controlled Middle Ages)? What if you simply lived _before_ Jesus (Thousands of years of hunter gatherers generations and early civilizations)? All these people are in Hell, right now, _suffering_, and will forever be. According to Protestants, only a tiny fraction of the human race who were lucky to both _know_ of Christ and _convert_ are going to heaven. Living is the highest gamble there is: you risk burning for the eternity, for mere 70 year or so living here, largely based on where and when you were born.

Those are my current reasons, as I said. Albeit it would be very interesting to see a religion that makes sense in the light of the natural world, so far, none seems to.
