One of the most empowering things that can be said is: "it's my fault". 

The true helpless situations are those where it is nobody's fault: the loss of someone close, terminal diseases, catastrophes, etc. Those are things that can't be changed no matter we do. However, our tendency is to also give up personal agency in front of problems that actually _could_ be changed- and say they are somebody else's fault. Personal responsibility is never comfortable. We don't like to see ourselves short of what we want- things being our fault. So we blame society, the will of God, genetics, family, etc for why we haven't achieved or become as we'd wish when the truth is that we haven't put forth the required effort or, even worse, didn't even try because we _knew_ we couldn't. How many times have you heard: "why is life unfair?", "why I am not like x person", "I don't have talent for this"?

A common example is someone who wants to lose weight but can't seem to. She can't resist her frequent cake-urges, don't want to eat less, don't want to exercise, yet magically want to slim down and with a quick fix become fit. A lot of "reasons" could be provided to explain why the weight doesn't shed (BMI is bullshit! Genetics! Thyroid! Shaming! Too poor to eat "healthy”! Conditions!) however none of them will achieve what such person wants: to lose weight.

Indeed, it's not easy to stop coddling yourself and not take the easy way of "it is okay it's not my fault". But it's a mandatory step to achieving our dreams. Saying "it's my fault" doesn't mean we will succeed 100% of times, however, with only a shift in mindset, we effectively pull what we want from the impossible and put it in the range of doable things. From there, nothing can dictate what we are capable or not.
