One thing that come up often when you meet new people is what are your religious afiliations. Here, I usually make a untranslatable joke ("sou à toa"), nevertheless a detailed answer will be required sometimes. Then I will get blank stares when I say I am an agnostic- even though the reasons are not ground breaking to those in the skeptic community or faith apologetics. I believe (heh) it is because there exists a common image of atheists, and by extension agnostics, as angry, irated at God people, who demean believers and judge them intelecually challenged because of their faith. Of course, _there are_ non-believers as such(likewise exists extremist believers) however I don't consider myself any of that. I am also far from an expert in all existing religions, so I will group all of their claims(spirituality, dogmas, non pshysical entities, etc) together as the "supernatural" as to explain some of the _actual_ motives why no religion currently appeals to me.

1. Lack of supernatural in our daily lifes
nada boa essas construções, precisa remodelar
There exits no (verified) supernatural activity in the everyday. If the supernatural is real, why does it seem to influence the natural world so little? Where does it show up? Oh, and what about miracles?

Seeing as how our notion of miracle changes over the time with the increase of knowlegde- in the past, all natural phenomenons like lighting or big waves were the handiwork of higher beings- let's start from the claim that most of the miracles we about hear are true. A prayer healed someone. The desired outcome happened because of a divine intervention. An angel made someone gift something to a believer.

Notice how they are always extensions of what is possible or just circunstances that get attibuited to the supernatural? We don't get to even hear of truly fastastic events. The kind of miracles which were common the antiguity, such as the Earth stopping its rotation, fire coming from the sky, gods themselves showing up, are now misteriously unheard of. Or the ones forseen in the future: the various accounts of apocalypse, the judment of the world; does anything today come close? Let us also not dwell on the success rate. How many few prayers from _millions_ made are answered? 

2. Admitting the supernatural brings more questions than answers
As a programmer I am a huge fan of occam's razor. The simplest designs are always the most beautiful ones. And on contrary to popular notion, the universe is simpler without the supernatural.

Once there is enough knowledge to prevent god in the gap scenarios, adding a metaphisycal layer only adds complexity. We get large amounts of questions(why does God created evil? what really happens after death? why doenst gods show themselves? what makes a prayer be answered and other not?) and almost zero satisfactory answers. All religions can't seem to better explain the universe.



3. The holy books don't pass serious scrutinity
To me, that's also a giant elephant in the room. Everybody has heard of passages in holy books or collections of myths who upholds murder, rape, condones slavery, features gods doing immoral things and so on. All atempts to explain these in the light of truly good higher beings(or even in respect to coherence) are, quite frankly, plainly stupid. We get told thing are out of context, gods are absolute, or anything that "justifies" such passages. Also the "higher plan" of the universe and/or the plan of salvation (in the religions that features this) are all at least _weird_. You plant a tree knowing people would eat it in order to slay your own son afterwards? Mbombo felt an stomache and vomited the stars and the earth? 

4. The whole world doomed
That different religions don't agree with each other is common sense. However a particular instance is who gets saved. In the religions with danation(specially the biggest ones) everybody is going to hell. Or at least 99% of every person who has lived. Taking evangelic christinity as example: everybody before jesus(pre historic humans, ancient civilizations, well the whole human race except for jews) were off to hell. Asian, indian populations and people who hasnt heard of Christ after his descent, also to eternal fire. In the Middle Ages pretty much the whole world since they most followed by obligation a fashion of catholic christiniaty that features indulgences, with burning and domination by fear. More currently, everybody since the The Age of Enlightenment who questions religions, or is a non believer, is condemend too. Ah, and of course, every single person(even if they are Ghandi-like) who happened to believe another religion as the right one.

Those are my reasons but as said, current: so if I ever see any religion that explains our universe better than not having a religion, of course I will consider it.